[Music]
you know it's just amazing
we humans are exceptional creatures our
bodies can survive falls from huge
Heights extreme temperatures and even
weeks without food but some survival
stories literally make your blood run
cold and such as the story of ada
blackjack a young woman who spent two
years on a bitterly cold Arctic island
unprepared for such an ordeal and mostly
on her own in 1921 23 year-old ADA
blackjack found herself on an Arctic
island far away from civilization in the
company of four men and a female cat
named Vic an unlikely scenario by all
means so how did ADA end up in that
situation life didn't treat the petite
fragile woman particularly well a Native
American Inupiat she was born in Alaska
in 1898 and brought up by Methodist
missionaries she spoke some English and
knew how to cook sew and clean which
were the women's main responsibilities
at that time and naturally nobody taught
ADA how to hunt or survive in the
wilderness skills she would have learned
if she'd stayed with her native tribe
ada was 16 when she got married to Jack
Black Jack who was a local dog musher
unfortunately this marriage didn't bring
the poor girl anything but despair the
couple lost two of their three children
and besides ADA's husband turned out to
be a cruel and aggressive man eventually
in 1921 he left her and their
five-year-old son alone the woman had to
walk 40 miles back home to know carrying
the tired child on her back most of the
way but when they arrived at her
destination it turned out that the
woman's life had more hardships in store
8 his son Bennett
fell ill with tuberculosis but she
didn't have money for his treatment she
was forced to leave him in a local
orphanage and set off in search of a job
to earn enough to take him back home
that's when fortune smiled upon her or
so she thought at the time ADA heard
about an expedition heading for Wrangel
Island it was organized by arctic
explorer vilho muir Steffensen and they
needed an Alaskan native seamstress who
could cook and maintain the camp and
also new english ada seemed to fit this
position perfectly but when she agreed
to this offer she didn't know what stood
behind a seemingly well-organized
expedition wangle Island is located
about 250 miles away from the coast of
Alaska and approximately 100 miles north
of Siberia almost all year round the
ocean around the island is frozen and
the ship passage is next to impossible
thick fog covers the shores of the
island which makes navigation extremely
complicated that's why when Villa more
Steffensen who was Canadian asked his
government to fund the mission Canada
flatly refused to sponsor the deadly
undertaking even so the Explorer didn't
let go of his idea and decided to claim
the island for Britain he gathered a
crew of four men one cat and our little
ADA and sent them away with nearly six
months of supplies and a promise that a
ship would bring more food and other
supplies the following year
interestingly the Explorer didn't join
the party himself
that's how ADA blackjack ended up
stranded on Wrangel Island for two years
which was the needed time to stay claim
to an uninhabited land the young woman
had been initially promised that there
would be other Alaska Natives in the
party but as the ship was getting ready
to sail off no other Eskimo family
showed up
still ADA needed money to take her
little son home and the salary she was
offered for taking part in the
expedition was $50 a month a huge sum of
money for the young mother
the woman had no other choice but to
agree and on September 9th 1921 the ship
left the port taking ADA away the plan
was to settle up organize a camp and
live off the land until the ship with
the load of supplies arrived but as
often happens in life nothing went as
planned at first everything was fine
just as stepheson had promised but then
the summer came and went and there was
still no sign of a ship some of the food
supplies the party brought to the island
spoiled and the rest had been eaten
little did the people on the island know
that the ship with new supplies was sent
to late and had to turn back because the
passage toward the island had iced up
and become impenetrable the people of
the island were starting to panic they
had almost run out of food and there was
a critical lack of game on the island on
top of that the party had used all the
wood for two miles around the camp and
relocation was the only way out in
January one member of the expedition
Lorne night fell ill with scurvy to
avoid starvation the rest of the men
decided to explore an area further away
from camp in attempts to find some food
ada packed tools geological equipment
three 20-pound cases of hard bread and
two 5-gallon cans of seal fat for them
in minus 69 degrees Fahrenheit the men
took all the remaining dogs and left the
young woman alone to look after the sick
team member the next day a severe storm
hit the island ada never saw the men
again
[Music]
she kept looking after night all the
while trying to be cheerful so he
wouldn't lose heart she maintained the
camp checked the traps and was terribly
afraid that a polar bear would attack
her while she was out but unfortunately
her only companion got worse and worse
in June 19-22 he passed away and ADA
was left entirely alone on a frozen
deserted island but ADA knew that she
had to survive to return to her son
the woman learned to shoot seals with
Knight's rifle and made shoe soles from
their skins she hunted check traps and
even built a makeshift boat from
driftwood and canvas she lived in a
storage tent with a cupboard built out
of boxes at the entrance that's where
she kept her ammunition and binoculars
also she made a gun rack over her bed
this way no polar bear could catch her
by surprise the young woman even had
time and interest to experiment with the
photography equipment the expedition had
brought along she took pictures of
herself in different places outside the
camp when a rescue party finally arrived
on August 20th 1923 the crew of the
schooner Donaldson noted that the woman
who met them seemed to have mastered her
environment
the men were shocked to find that this
brave hardened woman had been doing fine
on her own some crew members even stated
that ADA could easily survive on the
island for another year or so had the
rescue party not arrived finally she got
back home and received her payment which
was by the way much smaller than she had
initially been promised even so after
ADA reunited with her son she used the
money to take him to a hospital in
Seattle to treat his tuberculosis the
story of ada blackjack is still
considered one of the most impressive
survival feats ever when she got back
home to Alaska two years after she first
set foot on the unfortunate Island
people called her a hero
and the female robinson crusoe the most
shocking fact though was that even as
the expedition was preparing to set off
toward Wrangel Island the land already
belonged to the Russians who had legally
occupied it in 1916 what a story now
what would be the most difficult thing
for you if you found yourself on a cold
uninhabited island let me know down in
the comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
anywhere just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life